Here's another
simple but great exercise that trains your programming brain.
So I want you to create this function called sum, we give it a limit
and this function will return the sum of all the multiples
of 3 and 5 from 0 up to this limit.
Here's an example. What are the multiples of 3 and 5,
between 0 and 10. Well, multiples
of 3, are 3, 6, and 9
and multiples of 5 are
are 5 and 10, so I'm including this number that
is passed as a limit. Now if you add these numbers together,
the result will be 33, and that
is the trouble of this function, so save the changes, we get 33.
Here we need to start with a for loop, so let i,
equal to 0, as long as i is less than or equal to
limit, we want increment i, now we
want to check to see if i is a multiple of 3 or 5.
So if i module is 3
equals 0, or if i module
is 5 equals 0, now we need to take i
and add it to our sum. So here we need to declare a variable,
sum, set it to 0.
And if i is a multiple of 3 or 5,
we need to add i to sum.
And finally, we return, sum.
Now pay attention to how I have formatted this code. I have
added these extra vertical line breaks to separate the initialization
from the actual logic from the return
value. If we didn't have these vertical
breaks, this code would look a little bit squashed, it's a little bit hard to
read. So as a best practice, it's always good to separate the
last line, the return statement, now in this case, we can
have all these lines together because they're highly related. So we start
with initializing sum to 0, and we're now still working on sum to
add something to it. However, some developers prefer to separate
the initialization, so you could add a line break here as well.
That's more of a personal preference. But what I want you to take away is
lines that are highly related should be together, and they should
be separate from other lines.